.github/issue_template.md, before:

<!-- Thanks for submitting an issue! -->

<!-- CLICK "Preview" FOR INSTRUCTIONS IN A MORE READABLE FORMAT -->

# Prerequisites

- We ask only that you do your best to provide as much information as possible so we can better help you.
- Ensure the issue isn't already reported.
- Ensure the issue isn't about jq itself.
- Should be reproducible with the latest node-jq version.

# Delete the above section and the instructions in the sections below before submitting

## Description

If this is a feature request, explain why it should be added. Specific use-cases are best.

For bug reports, please provide as much *relevant* info as possible and create a minimum reproduction with this [codesandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/node-jq-issue-playground-4kqhr).

### Test Source

```js
// Avoid posting many lines of source code that aren't related with the issue.
```

### Error Message & Stack Trace

```bash
COPY THE ERROR MESSAGE, INCLUDING STACK TRACE HERE
```

## Environment

Tell us which operating system you are using, as well as which versions of Node.js, npm/yarn, and node-jq.

Run the following to get it quickly:
nodejs version:

```bash
node -e "var os=require('os');console.log('Node.js ' + process.version + '\n' + os.platform() + ' ' + os.release())"
```

yarn version:

```bash
yarn --version
```

npm version:

```bash
npm --version
```

node-jq version:

```bash
cat node_modules/node-jq/package.json | grep "version"
```

Commit message:

chore: Add replit into the issue_template

.github/issue_template.md, after:

<!-- Thanks for submitting an issue -->

<!-- CLICK "Preview" FOR INSTRUCTIONS IN A MORE READABLE FORMAT -->

# Prerequisites

- We ask only that you do your best to provide as much information as possible so we can better help you.
- Ensure the issue isn't already reported.
- Ensure the issue isn't about jq itself.
- Should be reproducible with the latest node-jq version.

# Delete the above section and the instructions in the sections below before submitting

## Description

If this is a feature request, explain why it should be added. Specific use-cases are best.
For bug reports, please provide as much *relevant* info as possible and create a minimum reproduction forking this [replit](https://replit.com/@DavidSancho/try-node-jq?v=1), or a link to a public repository.

### Test Source

```js
// Avoid posting many lines of source code that aren't related with the issue.
```

### Error Message & Stack Trace

```bash
COPY THE ERROR MESSAGE, INCLUDING STACK TRACE HERE
```

## Environment

Tell us which operating system you are using, as well as which versions of Node.js, npm/yarn, and node-jq.

Run the following to get it quickly:
nodejs version:

```bash
node -e "var os=require('os');console.log('Node.js ' + process.version + '\n' + os.platform() + ' ' + os.release())"
```

yarn version:

```bash
yarn --version
```

npm version:

```bash
npm --version
```

node-jq version:

```bash
cat node_modules/node-jq/package.json | grep "version"
```
